README.md, before:

# Homelab Kubernetes

This repo shall be my new configuration for my home server.
It has [Talos Linux](https://www.talos.dev/) running bare metal and will be running [FluxCD](https://fluxcd.io/) to manage deploys.
The repo is a fork from this [flux2-kustomize-helm](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example) tutorial, which its original readme is below the Talos section.

# Talos configuration

Pretty much itr [getting started](https://www.talos.dev/v1.7/introduction/getting-started/), but with a couple of observations.

When [Modifying the Machine configs](https://www.talos.dev/v1.7/introduction/getting-started/#modifying-the-machine-configs), change from /dev/sda to /dev/vda on both controlplane.yaml and worker.yaml.

Also, [enable workers on your control plane nodes](https://www.talos.dev/v1.7/talos-guides/howto/workers-on-controlplane/). Just set allowSchedulingOnControlPlanes to true.


### The commands executed for the staging clusters are the following

``` bash
talosctl gen config staging https://192.168.122.107:6443
# edit configuration files
talosctl apply-config --insecure -n 192.168.122.107 --file controlplane.yaml --talosconfig=./talosconfig
talosctl bootstrap --nodes 192.168.122.107 --endpoints 192.168.122.107 --talosconfig=./talosconfig
talosctl kubeconfig --nodes 192.168.122.107 --endpoints 192.168.122.107 --talosconfig=./talosconfig
```

When bootstraping, the configuration might not be named as expected. Use `kubectl config view` to check if doesn't have "admin@" prefixed. Run the following to change:

``` bash
kubectl config rename-context admin@staging staging
```

## Managing Storage

## Adding a new machine to cluster


# flux2-kustomize-helm-example

[![test](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/workflows/test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/actions)
[![e2e](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/workflows/e2e/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/actions)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example.svg)](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/blob/main/LICENSE)

For this example we assume a scenario with two clusters: staging and production.
The end goal is to leverage Flux and Kustomize to manage both clusters while minimizing duplicated declarations.

We will configure Flux to install, test and upgrade a demo app using
`HelmRepository` and `HelmRelease` custom resources.
Flux will monitor the Helm repository, and it will automatically
upgrade the Helm releases to their latest chart version based on semver ranges.

## Prerequisites

You will need a Kubernetes cluster version 1.28 or newer.
For a quick local test, you can use [Kubernetes kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/).
Any other Kubernetes setup will work as well though.

In order to follow the guide you'll need a GitHub account and a
[personal access token](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line)
that can create repositories (check all permissions under `repo`).

Install the Flux CLI on macOS or Linux using Homebrew:

```sh
brew install fluxcd/tap/flux
```

Or install the CLI by downloading precompiled binaries using a Bash script:

```sh
curl -s https://fluxcd.io/install.sh | sudo bash
```

## Repository structure

The Git repository contains the following top directories:

- **apps** dir contains Helm releases with a custom configuration per cluster
- **infrastructure** dir contains common infra tools such as ingress-nginx and cert-manager
- **clusters** dir contains the Flux configuration per cluster

```
├── apps
│   ├── base
│   ├── production 
│   └── staging
├── infrastructure
│   ├── configs
│   └── controllers
└── clusters
    ├── production
    └── staging
```

### Applications

The apps configuration is structured into:

- **apps/base/** dir contains namespaces and Helm release definitions
- **apps/production/** dir contains the production Helm release values
- **apps/staging/** dir contains the staging values

```
./apps/
├── base
│   └── podinfo
│       ├── kustomization.yaml
│       ├── namespace.yaml
│       ├── release.yaml
│       └── repository.yaml
├── production
│   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   └── podinfo-patch.yaml
└── staging
    ├── kustomization.yaml
    └── podinfo-patch.yaml
```

In **apps/base/podinfo/** dir we have a Flux `HelmRelease` with common values for both clusters:

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: podinfo
  namespace: podinfo
spec:
  releaseName: podinfo
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: podinfo
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: podinfo
        namespace: flux-system
  interval: 50m
  values:
    ingress:
      enabled: true
      className: nginx
```

In **apps/staging/** dir we have a Kustomize patch with the staging specific values:

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: podinfo
spec:
  chart:
    spec:
      version: ">=1.0.0-alpha"
  test:
    enable: true
  values:
    ingress:
      hosts:
        - host: podinfo.staging
```

Note that with ` version: ">=1.0.0-alpha"` we configure Flux to automatically upgrade
the `HelmRelease` to the latest chart version including alpha, beta and pre-releases.

In **apps/production/** dir we have a Kustomize patch with the production specific values:

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: podinfo
  namespace: podinfo
spec:
  chart:
    spec:
      version: ">=1.0.0"
  values:
    ingress:
      hosts:
        - host: podinfo.production
```

Note that with ` version: ">=1.0.0"` we configure Flux to automatically upgrade
the `HelmRelease` to the latest stable chart version (alpha, beta and pre-releases will be ignored).

### Infrastructure

The infrastructure is structured into:

- **infrastructure/controllers/** dir contains namespaces and Helm release definitions for Kubernetes controllers
- **infrastructure/configs/** dir contains Kubernetes custom resources such as cert issuers and networks policies

```
./infrastructure/
├── configs
│   ├── cluster-issuers.yaml
│   └── kustomization.yaml
└── controllers
    ├── cert-manager.yaml
    ├── ingress-nginx.yaml
    └── kustomization.yaml
```

In **infrastructure/controllers/** dir we have the Flux `HelmRepository` and `HelmRelease` definitions such as:

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: cert-manager
spec:
  interval: 30m
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: cert-manager
      version: "1.x"
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: cert-manager
        namespace: cert-manager
      interval: 12h
  values:
    installCRDs: true
```

Note that with ` interval: 12h` we configure Flux to pull the Helm repository index every twelfth hours to check for updates.
If the new chart version that matches the `1.x` semver range is found, Flux will upgrade the release.

In **infrastructure/configs/** dir we have Kubernetes custom resources, such as the Let's Encrypt issuer:

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: letsencrypt
spec:
  acme:
    # Replace the email address with your own contact email
    email: fluxcdbot@users.noreply.github.com
    server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: letsencrypt-nginx
    solvers:
      - http01:
          ingress:
            class: nginx
```

In **clusters/production/infrastructure.yaml** we replace the Let's Encrypt server value to point to the production API:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1
kind: Kustomization
metadata:
  name: infra-configs
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  # ...omitted for brevity
  dependsOn:
    - name: infra-controllers
  patches:
    - patch: |
        - op: replace
          path: /spec/acme/server
          value: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
      target:
        kind: ClusterIssuer
        name: letsencrypt
```

Note that with `dependsOn` we tell Flux to first install or upgrade the controllers and only then the configs.
This ensures that the Kubernetes CRDs are registered on the cluster, before Flux applies any custom resources.

## Bootstrap staging and production

The clusters dir contains the Flux configuration:

```
./clusters/
├── production
│   ├── apps.yaml
│   └── infrastructure.yaml
└── staging
    ├── apps.yaml
    └── infrastructure.yaml
```

In **clusters/staging/** dir we have the Flux Kustomization definitions, for example:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1
kind: Kustomization
metadata:
  name: apps
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 10m0s
  dependsOn:
    - name: infra-configs
  sourceRef:
    kind: GitRepository
    name: flux-system
  path: ./apps/staging
  prune: true
  wait: true
```

Note that with `path: ./apps/staging` we configure Flux to sync the staging Kustomize overlay and 
with `dependsOn` we tell Flux to create the infrastructure items before deploying the apps.

Fork this repository on your personal GitHub account and export your GitHub access token, username and repo name:

```sh
export GITHUB_TOKEN=<your-token>
export GITHUB_USER=<your-username>
export GITHUB_REPO=<repository-name>
```

The Token can be configured at Settings > Developer settings > Personal access tokens > Fine-grained tokens.
There, you may select only the desired repo and grant every permission under it.

Verify that your staging cluster satisfies the prerequisites with:

```sh
flux check --pre
```

Set the kubectl context to your staging cluster and bootstrap Flux:

```sh
flux bootstrap github \
    --context=staging \
    --owner=${GITHUB_USER} \
    --repository=${GITHUB_REPO} \
    --branch=main \
    --personal \
    --path=clusters/staging
```

The bootstrap command commits the manifests for the Flux components in `clusters/staging/flux-system` dir
and creates a deploy key with read-only access on GitHub, so it can pull changes inside the cluster.

To watch for the Helm releases being installed on staging, run:

```console
watch flux get helmreleases --all-namespaces
```

Something of this sort should be displayed:

```console
NAMESPACE    	NAME         	REVISION	SUSPENDED	READY	MESSAGE 
cert-manager 	cert-manager 	v1.11.0 	False    	True 	Release reconciliation succeeded
ingress-nginx	ingress-nginx	4.4.2   	False    	True 	Release reconciliation succeeded
podinfo      	podinfo      	6.3.0   	False    	True 	Release reconciliation succeeded
```

Verify that the demo app can be accessed via ingress. Those commands are to forward packages from the host to the ingress-nginx-controller (on the ingress-nginx namespace) on the cluster.

```console
kubectl -n ingress-nginx port-forward svc/ingress-nginx-controller 8080:80 &
```

Running a test command to ensure everything is running as expected.

```console
$ curl -H "Host: podinfo.staging" http://localhost:8080
```

```console
{
  "hostname": "podinfo-59489db7b5-lmwpn",
  "version": "6.2.3"
}
```

Bootstrap Flux on production by setting the context and path to your production cluster:

```sh
flux bootstrap github \
    --context=production \
    --owner=${GITHUB_USER} \
    --repository=${GITHUB_REPO} \
    --branch=main \
    --personal \
    --path=clusters/production
```

Watch the production reconciliation:

```console
$ flux get kustomizations --watch

NAME             	REVISION     	SUSPENDED	READY	MESSAGE                         
apps             	main/696182e	False    	True 	Applied revision: main/696182e	
flux-system      	main/696182e	False    	True 	Applied revision: main/696182e	
infra-configs    	main/696182e	False    	True 	Applied revision: main/696182e	
infra-controllers	main/696182e	False    	True 	Applied revision: main/696182e	
```

## Add clusters

If you want to add a cluster to your fleet, first clone your repo locally:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/${GITHUB_USER}/${GITHUB_REPO}.git
cd ${GITHUB_REPO}
```

Create a dir inside `clusters` with your cluster name:

```sh
mkdir -p clusters/dev
```

Copy the sync manifests from staging:

```sh
cp clusters/staging/infrastructure.yaml clusters/dev
cp clusters/staging/apps.yaml clusters/dev
```

You could create a dev overlay inside `apps`, make sure
to change the `spec.path` inside `clusters/dev/apps.yaml` to `path: ./apps/dev`. 

Push the changes to the main branch:

```sh
git add -A && git commit -m "add dev cluster" && git push
```

Set the kubectl context and path to your dev cluster and bootstrap Flux:

```sh
flux bootstrap github \
    --context=dev \
    --owner=${GITHUB_USER} \
    --repository=${GITHUB_REPO} \
    --branch=main \
    --personal \
    --path=clusters/dev
```

## Identical environments

If you want to spin up an identical environment, you can bootstrap a cluster
e.g. `production-clone` and reuse the `production` definitions.

Bootstrap the `production-clone` cluster:

```sh
flux bootstrap github \
    --context=production-clone \
    --owner=${GITHUB_USER} \
    --repository=${GITHUB_REPO} \
    --branch=main \
    --personal \
    --path=clusters/production-clone
```

Pull the changes locally:

```sh
git pull origin main
```

Create a `kustomization.yaml` inside the `clusters/production-clone` dir:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
resources:
  - flux-system
  - ../production/infrastructure.yaml
  - ../production/apps.yaml
```

Note that besides the `flux-system` kustomize overlay, we also include
the `infrastructure` and `apps` manifests from the production dir.

Push the changes to the main branch:

```sh
git add -A && git commit -m "add production clone" && git push
```

Tell Flux to deploy the production workloads on the `production-clone` cluster:

```sh
flux reconcile kustomization flux-system \
    --context=production-clone \
    --with-source 
```

## Testing

Any change to the Kubernetes manifests or to the repository structure should be validated in CI before
a pull requests is merged into the main branch and synced on the cluster.

This repository contains the following GitHub CI workflows:

* the [test](./.github/workflows/test.yaml) workflow validates the Kubernetes manifests and Kustomize overlays with [kubeconform](https://github.com/yannh/kubeconform)
* the [e2e](./.github/workflows/e2e.yaml) workflow starts a Kubernetes cluster in CI and tests the staging setup by running Flux in Kubernetes Kind

Commit message:

Updating documentation, as longhorn is working

README.md, after:

# Homelab Kubernetes

This repo shall be my new configuration for my home server.
It has [Talos Linux](https://www.talos.dev/) running bare metal and will be running [FluxCD](https://fluxcd.io/) to manage deploys.
The repo is a fork from this [flux2-kustomize-helm](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example) tutorial, which its original readme is below the Talos section.

# Talos configuration

Pretty much itr [getting started](https://www.talos.dev/latest/introduction/getting-started/), but with a couple of observations.

Depending what is tu be deployed (such as longhorn), [System Extensions](https://www.talos.dev/latest/talos-guides/configuration/system-extensions/) might be required. Reading the [Boot Assets](https://www.talos.dev/latest/talos-guides/install/boot-assets/) is also a good call. However, the [Image Factory](https://factory.talos.dev/) is the simplest way to get by.


When [Modifying the Machine configs](https://www.talos.dev/latest/introduction/getting-started/#modifying-the-machine-configs), change from /dev/sda to /dev/vda on both controlplane.yaml and worker.yaml. For longhorn support, some extra operations must be done. Those can be found [here](https://longhorn.io/docs/latest/advanced-resources/os-distro-specific/talos-linux-support/). On [Pod Security](https://longhorn.io/docs/latest/advanced-resources/os-distro-specific/talos-linux-support/#pod-security), it says to change to "privileged". However, adding "longhorn-system" to the exemptions also works.

Also, [enable workers on your control plane nodes](https://www.talos.dev/latest/talos-guides/howto/workers-on-controlplane/). Just set allowSchedulingOnControlPlanes to true.

### The commands executed for the staging clusters are the following

``` bash
talosctl gen config staging https://192.168.122.107:6443
# edit configuration files
talosctl apply-config --insecure -n 192.168.122.107 --file controlplane.yaml --talosconfig=./talosconfig
talosctl bootstrap --nodes 192.168.122.107 --endpoints 192.168.122.107 --talosconfig=./talosconfig
talosctl kubeconfig --nodes 192.168.122.107 --endpoints 192.168.122.107 --talosconfig=./talosconfig
```

When bootstraping, the configuration might not be named as expected. Use `kubectl config view` to check if doesn't have "admin@" prefixed. Run the following to change:

``` bash
kubectl config rename-context admin@staging staging
```

## Managing Storage

## Adding a new machine to cluster


# flux2-kustomize-helm-example

[![test](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/workflows/test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/actions)
[![e2e](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/workflows/e2e/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/actions)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example.svg)](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-kustomize-helm-example/blob/main/LICENSE)

For this example we assume a scenario with two clusters: staging and production.
The end goal is to leverage Flux and Kustomize to manage both clusters while minimizing duplicated declarations.

We will configure Flux to install, test and upgrade a demo app using
`HelmRepository` and `HelmRelease` custom resources.
Flux will monitor the Helm repository, and it will automatically
upgrade the Helm releases to their latest chart version based on semver ranges.

## Prerequisites

You will need a Kubernetes cluster version 1.28 or newer.
For a quick local test, you can use [Kubernetes kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/).
Any other Kubernetes setup will work as well though.

In order to follow the guide you'll need a GitHub account and a
[personal access token](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line)
that can create repositories (check all permissions under `repo`).

Install the Flux CLI on macOS or Linux using Homebrew:

```sh
brew install fluxcd/tap/flux
```

Or install the CLI by downloading precompiled binaries using a Bash script:

```sh
curl -s https://fluxcd.io/install.sh | sudo bash
```

## Repository structure

The Git repository contains the following top directories:

- **apps** dir contains Helm releases with a custom configuration per cluster
- **infrastructure** dir contains common infra tools such as ingress-nginx and cert-manager
- **clusters** dir contains the Flux configuration per cluster

```
├── apps
│   ├── base
│   ├── production 
│   └── staging
├── infrastructure
│   ├── configs
│   └── controllers
└── clusters
    ├── production
    └── staging
```

### Applications

The apps configuration is structured into:

- **apps/base/** dir contains namespaces and Helm release definitions
- **apps/production/** dir contains the production Helm release values
- **apps/staging/** dir contains the staging values

```
./apps/
├── base
│   └── podinfo
│       ├── kustomization.yaml
│       ├── namespace.yaml
│       ├── release.yaml
│       └── repository.yaml
├── production
│   ├── kustomization.yaml
│   └── podinfo-patch.yaml
└── staging
    ├── kustomization.yaml
    └── podinfo-patch.yaml
```

In **apps/base/podinfo/** dir we have a Flux `HelmRelease` with common values for both clusters:

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: podinfo
  namespace: podinfo
spec:
  releaseName: podinfo
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: podinfo
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: podinfo
        namespace: flux-system
  interval: 50m
  values:
    ingress:
      enabled: true
      className: nginx
```

In **apps/staging/** dir we have a Kustomize patch with the staging specific values:

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: podinfo
spec:
  chart:
    spec:
      version: ">=1.0.0-alpha"
  test:
    enable: true
  values:
    ingress:
      hosts:
        - host: podinfo.staging
```

Note that with ` version: ">=1.0.0-alpha"` we configure Flux to automatically upgrade
the `HelmRelease` to the latest chart version including alpha, beta and pre-releases.

In **apps/production/** dir we have a Kustomize patch with the production specific values:

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: podinfo
  namespace: podinfo
spec:
  chart:
    spec:
      version: ">=1.0.0"
  values:
    ingress:
      hosts:
        - host: podinfo.production
```

Note that with ` version: ">=1.0.0"` we configure Flux to automatically upgrade
the `HelmRelease` to the latest stable chart version (alpha, beta and pre-releases will be ignored).

### Infrastructure

The infrastructure is structured into:

- **infrastructure/controllers/** dir contains namespaces and Helm release definitions for Kubernetes controllers
- **infrastructure/configs/** dir contains Kubernetes custom resources such as cert issuers and networks policies

```
./infrastructure/
├── configs
│   ├── cluster-issuers.yaml
│   └── kustomization.yaml
└── controllers
    ├── cert-manager.yaml
    ├── ingress-nginx.yaml
    └── kustomization.yaml
```

In **infrastructure/controllers/** dir we have the Flux `HelmRepository` and `HelmRelease` definitions such as:

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: cert-manager
spec:
  interval: 30m
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: cert-manager
      version: "1.x"
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: cert-manager
        namespace: cert-manager
      interval: 12h
  values:
    installCRDs: true
```

Note that with ` interval: 12h` we configure Flux to pull the Helm repository index every twelfth hours to check for updates.
If the new chart version that matches the `1.x` semver range is found, Flux will upgrade the release.

In **infrastructure/configs/** dir we have Kubernetes custom resources, such as the Let's Encrypt issuer:

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: letsencrypt
spec:
  acme:
    # Replace the email address with your own contact email
    email: fluxcdbot@users.noreply.github.com
    server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: letsencrypt-nginx
    solvers:
      - http01:
          ingress:
            class: nginx
```

In **clusters/production/infrastructure.yaml** we replace the Let's Encrypt server value to point to the production API:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1
kind: Kustomization
metadata:
  name: infra-configs
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  # ...omitted for brevity
  dependsOn:
    - name: infra-controllers
  patches:
    - patch: |
        - op: replace
          path: /spec/acme/server
          value: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
      target:
        kind: ClusterIssuer
        name: letsencrypt
```

Note that with `dependsOn` we tell Flux to first install or upgrade the controllers and only then the configs.
This ensures that the Kubernetes CRDs are registered on the cluster, before Flux applies any custom resources.

## Bootstrap staging and production

The clusters dir contains the Flux configuration:

```
./clusters/
├── production
│   ├── apps.yaml
│   └── infrastructure.yaml
└── staging
    ├── apps.yaml
    └── infrastructure.yaml
```

In **clusters/staging/** dir we have the Flux Kustomization definitions, for example:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1
kind: Kustomization
metadata:
  name: apps
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 10m0s
  dependsOn:
    - name: infra-configs
  sourceRef:
    kind: GitRepository
    name: flux-system
  path: ./apps/staging
  prune: true
  wait: true
```

Note that with `path: ./apps/staging` we configure Flux to sync the staging Kustomize overlay and 
with `dependsOn` we tell Flux to create the infrastructure items before deploying the apps.

Fork this repository on your personal GitHub account and export your GitHub access token, username and repo name:

```sh
export GITHUB_TOKEN=<your-token>
export GITHUB_USER=<your-username>
export GITHUB_REPO=<repository-name>
```

The Token can be configured at Settings > Developer settings > Personal access tokens > Fine-grained tokens.
There, you may select only the desired repo and grant every permission under it.

Verify that your staging cluster satisfies the prerequisites with:

```sh
flux check --pre
```

Set the kubectl context to your staging cluster and bootstrap Flux:

```sh
flux bootstrap github \
    --context=staging \
    --owner=${GITHUB_USER} \
    --repository=${GITHUB_REPO} \
    --branch=main \
    --personal \
    --path=clusters/staging
```

The bootstrap command commits the manifests for the Flux components in `clusters/staging/flux-system` dir
and creates a deploy key with read-only access on GitHub, so it can pull changes inside the cluster.

To watch for the Helm releases being installed on staging, run:

```console
watch flux get helmreleases --all-namespaces
```

Something of this sort should be displayed:

```console
NAMESPACE    	NAME         	REVISION	SUSPENDED	READY	MESSAGE 
cert-manager 	cert-manager 	v1.11.0 	False    	True 	Release reconciliation succeeded
ingress-nginx	ingress-nginx	4.4.2   	False    	True 	Release reconciliation succeeded
podinfo      	podinfo      	6.3.0   	False    	True 	Release reconciliation succeeded
```

Verify that the demo app can be accessed via ingress. Those commands are to forward packages from the host to the ingress-nginx-controller (on the ingress-nginx namespace) on the cluster.

```console
kubectl -n ingress-nginx port-forward svc/ingress-nginx-controller 8080:80 &
```

Running a test command to ensure everything is running as expected.

```console
$ curl -H "Host: podinfo.staging" http://localhost:8080
```

```console
{
  "hostname": "podinfo-59489db7b5-lmwpn",
  "version": "6.2.3"
}
```

Bootstrap Flux on production by setting the context and path to your production cluster:

```sh
flux bootstrap github \
    --context=production \
    --owner=${GITHUB_USER} \
    --repository=${GITHUB_REPO} \
    --branch=main \
    --personal \
    --path=clusters/production
```

Watch the production reconciliation:

```console
$ flux get kustomizations --watch

NAME             	REVISION     	SUSPENDED	READY	MESSAGE                         
apps             	main/696182e	False    	True 	Applied revision: main/696182e	
flux-system      	main/696182e	False    	True 	Applied revision: main/696182e	
infra-configs    	main/696182e	False    	True 	Applied revision: main/696182e	
infra-controllers	main/696182e	False    	True 	Applied revision: main/696182e	
```

## Add clusters

If you want to add a cluster to your fleet, first clone your repo locally:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/${GITHUB_USER}/${GITHUB_REPO}.git
cd ${GITHUB_REPO}
```

Create a dir inside `clusters` with your cluster name:

```sh
mkdir -p clusters/dev
```

Copy the sync manifests from staging:

```sh
cp clusters/staging/infrastructure.yaml clusters/dev
cp clusters/staging/apps.yaml clusters/dev
```

You could create a dev overlay inside `apps`, make sure
to change the `spec.path` inside `clusters/dev/apps.yaml` to `path: ./apps/dev`. 

Push the changes to the main branch:

```sh
git add -A && git commit -m "add dev cluster" && git push
```

Set the kubectl context and path to your dev cluster and bootstrap Flux:

```sh
flux bootstrap github \
    --context=dev \
    --owner=${GITHUB_USER} \
    --repository=${GITHUB_REPO} \
    --branch=main \
    --personal \
    --path=clusters/dev
```

## Identical environments

If you want to spin up an identical environment, you can bootstrap a cluster
e.g. `production-clone` and reuse the `production` definitions.

Bootstrap the `production-clone` cluster:

```sh
flux bootstrap github \
    --context=production-clone \
    --owner=${GITHUB_USER} \
    --repository=${GITHUB_REPO} \
    --branch=main \
    --personal \
    --path=clusters/production-clone
```

Pull the changes locally:

```sh
git pull origin main
```

Create a `kustomization.yaml` inside the `clusters/production-clone` dir:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
resources:
  - flux-system
  - ../production/infrastructure.yaml
  - ../production/apps.yaml
```

Note that besides the `flux-system` kustomize overlay, we also include
the `infrastructure` and `apps` manifests from the production dir.

Push the changes to the main branch:

```sh
git add -A && git commit -m "add production clone" && git push
```

Tell Flux to deploy the production workloads on the `production-clone` cluster:

```sh
flux reconcile kustomization flux-system \
    --context=production-clone \
    --with-source 
```

## Testing

Any change to the Kubernetes manifests or to the repository structure should be validated in CI before
a pull requests is merged into the main branch and synced on the cluster.

This repository contains the following GitHub CI workflows:

* the [test](./.github/workflows/test.yaml) workflow validates the Kubernetes manifests and Kustomize overlays with [kubeconform](https://github.com/yannh/kubeconform)
* the [e2e](./.github/workflows/e2e.yaml) workflow starts a Kubernetes cluster in CI and tests the staging setup by running Flux in Kubernetes Kind
